
Broadcast Receivers receive Intents sent to multiple applications. Receivers are triggered by the receipt of an appropriate Intent and then run in the background to handle the event. Receivers are typically short-lived; they often relay messages to Activities or Services. There are three types of broadcast Intents: normal, sticky, and ordered.
Normal broadcasts are sent to all registered Receivers at once, and then they disappear. Ordered broadcasts are delivered to one Receiver at a time; also, any Receiver in the delivery chain of an ordered broadcast can stop its propagation. Broadcast Receivers have the ability to set their priority level for receiving ordered broadcasts. Sticky broadcasts remain accessible after they have been delivered and are re-broadcast to future Receivers.
Exported Broadcast Receiver can be called by any other malicious application installed in the phone to invoke the Broadcast Receiver leading to XAS (Cross Application Scripting)

Risk Rating	Scan Type



Version 3.0 Base Score

3.3	Attack vector: LOCAL	Attack complexity: LOW
	Privileges required: LOW	User Interaction: NONE
	Scope: UNCHANGED	Confidentiality Impact: LOW
	Integrity Impact: NONE	Availability Impact: NONE



 
OWASP Mobile Top 10 (2024)
 
M8	Security Misconfiguration
 
CWE	CWE-926	https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/926.html


MSTG	MSTG-PLATFORM-3	The app does not export sensitive functionality via custom URL
schemes, unless these mechanisms are properly protected.
MSTG-PLATFORM-4	The app does not export sensitive functionality through IPC
facilities, unless these mechanisms are properly protected.


OWASP MASVS (v2)	MASVS-PLATFORM-1	The app uses IPC mechanisms securely.


PCI-DSS (v4.0)	3.2	Protect Account Data
Storage of account data is kept to a minimum
3.3	Protect Account Data
Sensitive authentication data (SAD) is not stored after authorization
 
3.4	Protect Account Data
Access to displays of full PAN and ability to copy cardholder data are restricted
3.5	Protect Account Data
Primary account number (PAN) is secured wherever it is stored


HIPAA	164.312(a)(1)	Technical Safeguards: Access Control

▪	Unique User Identification (Required)
Assign a unique name and/or number for identifying and tracking user identity
▪	Emergency Access Procedure (Required)
Establish (and implement as needed) procedures for obtaining necessary electronic protected health information during an emergency.
▪	Automatic Logoff (Addressable)
Implement electronic procedures that terminate an electronic session after a predetermined time of inactivity.
▪	Encryption and Decryption (Addressable) Implement a method to encrypt and decrypt electronic protected health information.


GDPR	Art-25-GDPR	Data protection by design and by default Art-32-GDPR	Security of processing
