 


A BroadcastReceiver represents one main component of an essential publish/subscribe messaging platform in Android. It, known as a subscriber, can be used to receive and respond to specific messages (or broadcasts) from the system or other components in the same application or different applications, such as notifying Android users when cellphone power is low as a system event-driven. This is generally achieved through the utilization of intent filters defined in the app manifest file.
The dynamically Broadcastreceiver is in the java source code to realize the broadcast mechanism using onReceive(). This mechanism is managed by the Activity Manager Service (AMS) on the second framework layer in the Android architecture.

Risk Rating	Scan Type



Version 3.0 Base Score

6.1	Attack vector: LOCAL	Attack complexity: LOW
	Privileges required: NONE	User Interaction: REQUIRED
	Scope: UNCHANGED	Confidentiality Impact: NONE
	Integrity Impact: HIGH	Availability Impact: LOW



 
OWASP Mobile Top 10 (2024)
 
M8	Security Misconfiguration
 
CWE	CWE-925	https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/925.html


MSTG	MSTG-PLATFORM-2	All inputs from external sources and the user are validated and if
necessary sanitized. This includes data received via the UI, IPC mechanisms such as intents, custom URLs, and network sources.

OWASP MASVS (v2)	MASVS-CODE-4	The app validates and sanitizes all untrusted inputs.


GDPR	Art-25-GDPR	Data protection by design and by default Art-32-GDPR	Security of processing

 
Broadcast Receivers which are set Dynamically and are not protected

An unprotected receiver was dynamically registered at Lcom/web2native/MainActivity;->onCreate



If the broadcast filter is listening for an intent that isn't a restricted broadcast then the malicious app can start sending them without needing any permissions.
Secondly if the receiver goes on to use the extras sent with the broadcast, or to start running other functions, then the malware has a whole new entry point to yTheour application.


To protect broadcast, it needs to be registered with permissions when it is declare.

Secondly never trust the data that is being sent with it. It's passing through a trust zone to arrive in the app, so it needs to be validated
