Certificate Pinning is the process of associating a host with their expected X509 certificate or public key. Once a certificate or public key is known or seen for a host, the certificate or public key is associated or 'pinned' to the host. If more than one certificate or public key is acceptable. In this case, the advertised identity must match one of the elements in the pinset.

Risk Rating	Scan Type



Version 3.0 Base Score

8.1	Attack vector: NETWORK	Attack complexity: LOW
	Privileges required: NONE	User Interaction: REQUIRED
	Scope: UNCHANGED	Confidentiality Impact: HIGH
	Integrity Impact: HIGH	Availability Impact: NONE



 
OWASP Mobile Top 10 (2024)
 
M5	Insecure Communication
 
CWE	CWE-295	https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/295.html


MSTG	MSTG-NETWORK-3	The app verifies the X.509 certificate of the remote endpoint
when the secure channel is established. Only certificates signed by a trusted CA are accepted.

OWASP MASVS (v2)	MASVS-NETWORK-2	The app performs identity pinning for all remote endpoints under
the developer's control.


PCI-DSS (v4.0)	4.1	Protect cardholder data with strong cryptography during transmission over open, public networks
Processes and mechanisms for protecting cardholder data with strong cryptography during transmission over open, public networks are defined and documented.
4.2	Protect cardholder data with strong cryptography during transmission over open, public networks
PAN is protected with strong cryptography during transmission


GDPR	Art-25-GDPR	Data protection by design and by default
 
Art-32-GDPR	Security of processing

A host or service's certificate or public key can be added to an application at development time, or it can be added upon first encountering the certificate or public key. The former - adding at development time - is preferred since preloading the certificate or public key out of band usually means the attacker cannot taint the pin.
SSL Pinning is not implemented in the Application.It also opens insecure HTTP Connection



Certificate Pinning can be done with these two options:

You can 1. pin the certificate or 2. pin the public key

If you choose public keys, you have two additional choices: - pin the subjectPublicKeyInfo or - pin one of the concrete types such as RSAPublicKey or DSAPublicKey.
The three choices are explained below in more detail. I would encourage you to pin the subjectPublicKeyInfo because it has the public parameters (such as {e,n} for an RSA public key) and contextual information such as an algorithm and OID. The context will help you keep your bearings at times, and the figure to the right shows the additional information available.

Certificate

The certificate is easiest to pin. You can fetch the certificate out of band for the website, have the IT folks email your company certificate to you, use openssl s_client to retrieve the certificate etc. At runtime, you retrieve the website or server's certificate in the callback. Within the callback, you compare the retrieved certificate with the certificate embedded within the program. If the comparison fails, then fail the method or function. There is a downside to pinning a certificate. If the site rotates its certificate on a regular basis, then your application would need to be updated regularly. For example, Google rotates its certificates, so you will need to update your application about once a month (if it depended on Google services). Even though Google rotates its certificates, the underlying public keys (within the certificate) remain static.

Public Key

Public key pinning is more flexible but a little trickier due to the extra steps necessary to extract the public key from a certificate. As with a certificate, the program checks the extracted public key with its embedded copy of the public key. There are two downsides to public key pinning. First, it's harder to work with keys (versus certificates) since you must extract the key from the certificate. Extraction is a minor inconvenience in Java and .Net, buts it's uncomfortable in Cocoa/CocoaTouch and OpenSSL. Second, the key is static and may violate key rotation policies.

Hashing

While the three choices above used DER encoding, its also acceptable to use a hash of the information. In fact, the original sample programs were written using digested certificates and public keys. The samples were changed to allow a programmer to inspect the objects with tools like dumpasn1 and other ASN.1 decoders.
Hashing also provides three additional benefits. First, hashing allows you to anonymize a certificate or public key. This might be important if you application is concerned about leaking information during decompilation and re-engineering. Second, a digested certificate fingerprint is often available as a native API for many libraries, so its convenient to use. Finally, an organization might want to supply a reserve (or back-up) identity in case the primary identity is compromised. Hashing ensures your adversaries do not see the reserved certificate or public key in advance of its use. In fact, Google's IETF draft websec-key-pinning uses the technique.
 

 
In the event that a user (anonymous or verified) is able to execute over-privileged functionality, the business may experience:
▪	Reputational Damage
▪	Fraud
▪	Information Theft


▪	OWASP Transport Layer Protection Cheat Sheet
▪	IETF RFC 1421 (PEM Encoding)
▪	IETF RFC 4648 (Base16, Base32, and Base64 Encodings)
▪	IETF RFC 5280 (Internet X.509, PKIX)
▪	IETF RFC 3279 (PKI, X509 Algorithms and CRL Profiles)
▪	IETF RFC 4055 (PKI, X509 Additional Algorithms and CRL Profiles)
▪	IETF RFC 2246 (TLS 1.0)
▪	IETF RFC 4346 (TLS 1.1)
▪	IETF RFC 5246 (TLS 1.2)
▪	RSA Laboratories PKCS#1, RSA Encryption Standard
▪	RSA Laboratories PKCS#6, Extended-Certificate Syntax Standard
