Activities provide user interfaces. Activities are started with Intents, and they can return data to their invoking components upon completion. All visible portions of applications are Activities.
Exported Activities can be called by any other application installed in the phone leading to XAS (Cross Application Scripting)

Risk Rating	Scan Type



Version 3.0 Base Score

3.3	Attack vector: LOCAL	Attack complexity: LOW
	Privileges required: LOW	User Interaction: NONE
	Scope: UNCHANGED	Confidentiality Impact: LOW
	Integrity Impact: NONE	Availability Impact: NONE



 
OWASP Mobile Top 10 (2024)
 
M8	Security Misconfiguration
 
CWE	CWE-926	https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/926.html


MSTG	MSTG-PLATFORM-3	The app does not export sensitive functionality via custom URL
schemes, unless these mechanisms are properly protected.
MSTG-PLATFORM-4	The app does not export sensitive functionality through IPC
facilities, unless these mechanisms are properly protected.


OWASP MASVS (v2)	MASVS-PLATFORM-1	The app uses IPC mechanisms securely.


PCI-DSS (v4.0)	3.2	Protect Account Data
Storage of account data is kept to a minimum
3.3	Protect Account Data
Sensitive authentication data (SAD) is not stored after authorization
3.4	Protect Account Data
Access to displays of full PAN and ability to copy cardholder data are restricted
 
3.5	Protect Account Data
Primary account number (PAN) is secured wherever it is stored


HIPAA	164.312(a)(1)	Technical Safeguards: Access Control

▪	Unique User Identification (Required)
Assign a unique name and/or number for identifying and tracking user identity
▪	Emergency Access Procedure (Required)
Establish (and implement as needed) procedures for obtaining necessary electronic protected health information during an emergency.
▪	Automatic Logoff (Addressable)
Implement electronic procedures that terminate an electronic session after a predetermined time of inactivity.
▪	Encryption and Decryption (Addressable) Implement a method to encrypt and decrypt electronic protected health information.


GDPR	Art-25-GDPR	Data protection by design and by default Art-32-GDPR	Security of processing

The Android application exports Activity for use by other applications, but does not properly restrict which applications can launch the component or access the data it contains.
Unprotected activity: com.onesignal.NotificationOpenedActivityHMS

Unprotected activity: com.onesignal.notifications.activities.NotificationOpenedActivity

Unprotected activity: com.onesignal.notifications.activities.NotificationOpenedActivityAndroid22AndOlder



If you are using a Activity for sharing between only your own apps, it is preferable to use the android:protectionLevel attribute set to "signature" protection. Signature permissions do not require user confirmation, so they provide a better user experience and more controlled access to the application when the apps accessing the Activity are signed with the same key
If the activity is called within itself, then don't export it or use Intent-Filter for custom permissions


Attackers may use non-privileged services to intercept and track the user's activity. Furthermore, it may be possible to insert data that may maliciously modify the behaviour of the application.
